.TH AC 8
.SH NAME
ac \- login accounting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/ac
[
.B -dp
] [
.B -w
.I file
] [
.IR user ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR ac (8)
lists the connect time for users who have logged in during the life of the
.I wtmp
file. Totals over this lifetime, or each midnight\-to\-midnight period can
be produced.
.sp
If one or more
.IR user s
are listed, the times printed are limited to those accumulated by those users.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB-d\fR
Print daily totals.
.IP \fB-p\fR
Print individual totals. By default, grand totals are printed.
.IP "\fB-w\fR \fIfile\fR"
Name a file other than
.B /var/adm/wtmp
for login records.
.SH FILES
\fB/var/adm/wtmp\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
login(1), utmp(5), init(8)
.SH NOTES
There is an extra feature included within this version of
.IR ac (8)
which is not present in the UN*X version, and is available as a compile\-time
option. A user called
.B shutdown
is given special treatment; it is assumed that when this user logs on, the
system is brought down, but not logout is ever recorded in the
.I wtmp
file for them. The rebooting of the system is used instead of a logout; thus,
the `connect' times for this user actually give the amount of time the system
has been down. Note that this does not conflict with the shutdown and
reboot records placed in the
.I wtmp
file by
.IR init (8),
since they have a ut_line field of `~', whereas login records for the
.B shutdown
user have a real terminal line.
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Gymer (dpg@Cs.Nott.AC.UK, until about May 1993).
.sp
Based on (but not derived from) the
.B SunOS
version.
.sp
$Id: ac.8,v 0.1 1992/01/25 19:28:22 dpg Exp $
.EX
